example/README.md, before:

# Example Application

This is a React Native application built to showcase the features of `bitmovin-player-react-native`. The code for all feature samples is contained
inside the [`src/screens/`](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/tree/development/example/src/screens) directory:

- [Basic playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicPlayback.tsx)
- [Basic TV playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicTvPlayback.tsx)
- [Basic DRM playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicDrmPlayback.tsx)
- [Background playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BackgroundPlayback.tsx)
- [Custom subtitles](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/SubtitlePlayback.tsx)
- [Picture in Picture](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicPictureInPicture.tsx)
- [Custom HTML UI](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/CustomHtmlUi.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Basic Fullscreen handling](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicFullscreenHandling.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Landscape Fullscreen handling](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/LandscapeFullscreenHandling.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Basic Ads](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicAds.tsx)
- [Basic Analytics](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicAnalytics.tsx)
- [Basic Metadata](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicMetadata.tsx)
- [Basic Offline Playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/OfflinePlayback.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [System UI](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/SystemUi.tsx) (iOS and tvOS only)
- [Casting](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/Casting.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Programmatic Track Selection](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/ProgrammaticTrackSelection.tsx)

### Custom asset playback

To play back a custom video asset, it is possible to set up a simple playback session using the [Custom playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/CustomPlayback.tsx) example. Just tap the `Custom` button at the top-right corner, fill in the form with the necessary video asset/stream information (URL, type and license key) then select `Play` to start playback in the `PlayerView` component. This example can also be useful to check how certain types of videos/streams will behave with the library.

**Note** that custom playback is disabled by default on TV devices due to issues with the focus engine, but it is possible to re-enable it, if desired, by removing [this line](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/App.tsx#L130) from code.

## Getting started

To get started with the project, run `yarn bootstrap` in the library's root directory (not `example/`). This command handles all setup steps automatically, including installing dependencies for both the library and the example application, generating native projects, and installing native dependencies:

```sh
cd bitmovin-player-react-native # Go to library's root directory
yarn bootstrap # Handles all setup: installs deps, prebuilds native projects, installs pods
```

The `yarn bootstrap` command executes the following steps:

1. Installs root project dependencies
2. Installs example app dependencies
3. Generates native iOS and Android projects using Expo prebuild
4. Installs CocoaPods dependencies for iOS (macOS only)

Note that Windows users should instead run:

```powershell
cd bitmovin-player-react-native # Go to library's root directory
yarn install # Install root project dependencies
yarn example install # Install example folder dependencies
yarn example prebuild # Generate native projects
```

## Development Setup

To run the example app for local development, you need to provide a Bitmovin Player license key. This project uses a local `.env` file and a dynamic `app.config.ts` to manage these secrets.

1. **Create a local environment file:**
   From the root of the repository, copy the example `.env` template:

   ```bash
   cp example/.env.example example/.env
   ```

2. **Add your credentials:**
   Open `example/.env` and replace the placeholder values.
   - The `BITMOVIN_PLAYER_LICENSE_KEY` is required.
   - The `BITMOVIN_ANALYTICS_LICENSE_KEY` is optional. It is used in the "Basic Analytics" screen.
   - The `APPLE_DEVELOPMENT_TEAM_ID` is optional and only needed if you want to build the app on a physical iOS or tvOS device. You can find your Apple Team ID on the [Apple Developer website](https://developer.apple.com/account/) under "Membership details".

These values are loaded automatically by `example/app.config.ts` during the prebuild process and are not committed to version control. **This method is for internal development only.**

### Alternative: Programmatic License Key

Alternatively you can provide your license key programmatically via the config object of `usePlayer`. This method can be used alongside the `.env` configuration.

```ts
const player = usePlayer({
  // Just pass the key in the config object of `usePlayer` or `new Player()` in each example
  licenseKey: 'Your-License-Key',
});
```

### Add the Package Name and Bundle Identifiers as an Allowed Domain

Add the following package name/bundle identifier `com.bitmovin.player.reactnative.example` of the example application as an allowed domain on [https://bitmovin.com/dashboard](https://bitmovin.com/dashboard), under `Player -> Licenses` and also under `Analytics -> Licenses`.

### Re-generate the native iOS and Android applications

When changing `example/.env` or `example/app.config.ts` you will need to re-generate the native iOS and Android applications to pick those changes up.

The example application uses Expo Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) and the native apps can be re-generated using `yarn example prebuild`.
See `yarn example prebuild -h` for all options.

## Running the application

**Terminal**

```sh
# If TV examples were ran last time
yarn example prebuild --clean

yarn example ios # Run examples on iOS simulator, see yarn example ios -h for more options
yarn example android # Run examples on Android, see yarn example android -h for more options

# Before running TV examples
yarn example prebuild:tv --clean

yarn example tvos # Run examples on tvOS simulator, see yarn example tvos -h for more options
yarn example android-tv # Run examples on Android TV, see yarn example android-tv -h for more options
```

**IDE**

You can also open the iOS project using Xcode by running `yarn example open:ios` on terminal, or `yarn example open:android` to open the Android project in Android Studio.

### Running the bundler only

The bundler is automatically started when running `yarn example android` or `yarn example ios` or when running via the IDEs, but it can also be started separately.

To start the metro bundler, run the following command on the library's root (always execute `yarn` from the library's root):

```sh
yarn example start # Starts bundler on the example folder
```

## Architecture

This example app is built as an Expo application using:

- **Expo SDK**: Modern React Native development with prebuild workflow
- **Bitmovin Player React Native SDK**: Directly from the root project
- **Environment Configuration**: Secure license key management via dotenv

# Troubleshooting

- Run `yarn example prebuild --clean`, `yarn example prebuild:tv --clean` or `yarn integration-test prebuild --clean` if you encounter native build issues
- Check `example/.env` and `integration_test/.env` file configurations for missing environment variables
- Ensure autolinking is working: parent package should be resolved automatically

Commit message:

Add readme block for cast setup on android

example/README.md, after:

# Example Application

This is a React Native application built to showcase the features of `bitmovin-player-react-native`. The code for all feature samples is contained
inside the [`src/screens/`](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/tree/development/example/src/screens) directory:

- [Basic playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicPlayback.tsx)
- [Basic TV playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicTvPlayback.tsx)
- [Basic DRM playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicDrmPlayback.tsx)
- [Background playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BackgroundPlayback.tsx)
- [Custom subtitles](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/SubtitlePlayback.tsx)
- [Picture in Picture](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicPictureInPicture.tsx)
- [Custom HTML UI](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/CustomHtmlUi.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Basic Fullscreen handling](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicFullscreenHandling.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Landscape Fullscreen handling](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/LandscapeFullscreenHandling.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Basic Ads](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicAds.tsx)
- [Basic Analytics](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicAnalytics.tsx)
- [Basic Metadata](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/BasicMetadata.tsx)
- [Basic Offline Playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/OfflinePlayback.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [System UI](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/SystemUi.tsx) (iOS and tvOS only)
- [Casting](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/Casting.tsx) (iOS and Android only)
- [Programmatic Track Selection](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/ProgrammaticTrackSelection.tsx)

### Custom asset playback

To play back a custom video asset, it is possible to set up a simple playback session using the [Custom playback](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/screens/CustomPlayback.tsx) example. Just tap the `Custom` button at the top-right corner, fill in the form with the necessary video asset/stream information (URL, type and license key) then select `Play` to start playback in the `PlayerView` component. This example can also be useful to check how certain types of videos/streams will behave with the library.

**Note** that custom playback is disabled by default on TV devices due to issues with the focus engine, but it is possible to re-enable it, if desired, by removing [this line](https://github.com/bitmovin/bitmovin-player-react-native/blob/development/example/src/App.tsx#L130) from code.

## Getting started

To get started with the project, run `yarn bootstrap` in the library's root directory (not `example/`). This command handles all setup steps automatically, including installing dependencies for both the library and the example application, generating native projects, and installing native dependencies:

```sh
cd bitmovin-player-react-native # Go to library's root directory
yarn bootstrap # Handles all setup: installs deps, prebuilds native projects, installs pods
```

The `yarn bootstrap` command executes the following steps:

1. Installs root project dependencies
2. Installs example app dependencies
3. Generates native iOS and Android projects using Expo prebuild
4. Installs CocoaPods dependencies for iOS (macOS only)

Note that Windows users should instead run:

```powershell
cd bitmovin-player-react-native # Go to library's root directory
yarn install # Install root project dependencies
yarn example install # Install example folder dependencies
yarn example prebuild # Generate native projects
```

## Development Setup

To run the example app for local development, you need to provide a Bitmovin Player license key. This project uses a local `.env` file and a dynamic `app.config.ts` to manage these secrets.

1. **Create a local environment file:**
   From the root of the repository, copy the example `.env` template:

   ```bash
   cp example/.env.example example/.env
   ```

2. **Add your credentials:**
   Open `example/.env` and replace the placeholder values.
   - The `BITMOVIN_PLAYER_LICENSE_KEY` is required.
   - The `BITMOVIN_ANALYTICS_LICENSE_KEY` is optional. It is used in the "Basic Analytics" screen.
   - The `APPLE_DEVELOPMENT_TEAM_ID` is optional and only needed if you want to build the app on a physical iOS or tvOS device. You can find your Apple Team ID on the [Apple Developer website](https://developer.apple.com/account/) under "Membership details".

These values are loaded automatically by `example/app.config.ts` during the prebuild process and are not committed to version control. **This method is for internal development only.**

### Alternative: Programmatic License Key

Alternatively you can provide your license key programmatically via the config object of `usePlayer`. This method can be used alongside the `.env` configuration.

```ts
const player = usePlayer({
  // Just pass the key in the config object of `usePlayer` or `new Player()` in each example
  licenseKey: 'Your-License-Key',
});
```

### Setup for custom cast applicationId and messageNamespace on Android

Due to a lifecycle limitation with react-native, the `BitmovinCastManager.initialize(applicationId, messageNamespace)` do not work as intended, so please don't use it.
To workaround that limitation, you can define the applicationId and messageNamespace in one of the 2 following ways:
(Not providing a value will use the default value)

1. Add the configuration to the `example/.env` file

- Add a value for `BITMOVIN_PLAYER_ANDROID_CAST_APPLICATION_ID=YOUR_APPLICATION_ID`
- Add a value for `BITMOVIN_PLAYER_ANDROID_CAST_MESSAGE_NAMESPACE=YOUR_MESSAGE_NAMESPACE`.

2. Add the configuration to the `AndroidManifest.xml` file. Add metadata to the `Application` tag:

- `<meta-data android:name="BITMOVIN_CAST_APPLICATION_ID" android:value="YOUR_APPLICATION_ID"/>`
- `<meta-data android:name="BITMOVIN_CAST_MESSAGE_NAMESPACE" android:value="YOUR_MESSAGE_NAMESPACE"/>`

### Add the Package Name and Bundle Identifiers as an Allowed Domain

Add the following package name/bundle identifier `com.bitmovin.player.reactnative.example` of the example application as an allowed domain on [https://bitmovin.com/dashboard](https://bitmovin.com/dashboard), under `Player -> Licenses` and also under `Analytics -> Licenses`.

### Re-generate the native iOS and Android applications

When changing `example/.env` or `example/app.config.ts` you will need to re-generate the native iOS and Android applications to pick those changes up.

The example application uses Expo Continuous Native Generation ([CNG](https://docs.expo.dev/workflow/continuous-native-generation/)) and the native apps can be re-generated using `yarn example prebuild`.
See `yarn example prebuild -h` for all options.

## Running the application

**Terminal**

```sh
# If TV examples were ran last time
yarn example prebuild --clean

yarn example ios # Run examples on iOS simulator, see yarn example ios -h for more options
yarn example android # Run examples on Android, see yarn example android -h for more options

# Before running TV examples
yarn example prebuild:tv --clean

yarn example tvos # Run examples on tvOS simulator, see yarn example tvos -h for more options
yarn example android-tv # Run examples on Android TV, see yarn example android-tv -h for more options
```

**IDE**

You can also open the iOS project using Xcode by running `yarn example open:ios` on terminal, or `yarn example open:android` to open the Android project in Android Studio.

### Running the bundler only

The bundler is automatically started when running `yarn example android` or `yarn example ios` or when running via the IDEs, but it can also be started separately.

To start the metro bundler, run the following command on the library's root (always execute `yarn` from the library's root):

```sh
yarn example start # Starts bundler on the example folder
```

## Architecture

This example app is built as an Expo application using:

- **Expo SDK**: Modern React Native development with prebuild workflow
- **Bitmovin Player React Native SDK**: Directly from the root project
- **Environment Configuration**: Secure license key management via dotenv

# Troubleshooting

- Run `yarn example prebuild --clean`, `yarn example prebuild:tv --clean` or `yarn integration-test prebuild --clean` if you encounter native build issues
- Check `example/.env` and `integration_test/.env` file configurations for missing environment variables
- Ensure autolinking is working: parent package should be resolved automatically
